---
title: "Customer Lifecycle Marketer"
location: "Finland"
host: "https://apply.workable.com/leadfeeder/"
companyName: "Leadfeeder"
url: "https://apply.workable.com/leadfeeder/j/259AAA0060/"
applyUrl: "https://apply.workable.com/leadfeeder/j/259AAA0060/apply/"
timestamp: 1629936000000
hashtags: "#marketing,#management,#sales,#css,#content,#analytics,#qa,#translation,#ui/ux"
jobType: "other"
logoUrl: "https://jobboard-logos-bucket.s3.eu-central-1.amazonaws.com/leadfeeder"
companyWebsite: "https://www.leadfeeder.com/"
summary: "To apply as a customer lifecycle marketer at Leadfeeder, you preferably need to have 3+ years of hands-on experience in developing and executing end-to-end lifecycle marketing campaigns, including email and in-app messaging."
summaryBackup: "Excited about #marketing, #management, #sales? Check out this job post!"
featured: 20
---

## Description

Leadfeeder is a fast-growing international SaaS startup, headquartered in Finland. We are on a mission to bring web intelligence to our customers. Simply put, Leadfeeder helps companies know more about their website traffic, which enables them to convert promising visitors into sales and marketing leads.

We are a remote-first company, which means you can work from wherever you prefer as long as you are physically located in Europe. To support our distributed setup, we have a culture of transparency, ownership, and collaboration. We love our casual dress code, company retreats in sunny locations, and the opportunity to work with a truly diverse 100+ strong team based in 25 countries.

What sets us apart? We are a market leader with a solid business model ready to be scaled. Our data-driven and customer-centric approach keeps us grounded while providing a basis for sustainable and ambitious growth.

Are you a self-starter looking to learn and grow as part of a world-class team? Join our journey!

## About this role

We are looking for a talented Customer Lifecycle Marketer to join the marketing team at Leadfeeder. The successful candidate will play a strategic role in owning the development of the customer journey, defining landmarks along the way, and executing programs that drive deeper engagement with customers to increase retention and increase revenue per account.

Using channels including (but not limited to) email, in-app messaging, product tours, and by working closely with our product, sales, and support teams, you will be responsible for driving the user behaviours that make our customers successful, while building strategies to drive product/feature adoption, engagement, revenue expansion, and reduce churn.

## Responsibilities

*   Act as owner of the customer journey, develop the journey map, gain team alignment with Marketing, Product, CS, and Sales
*   Build, manage, and optimize emails and in app messages across the user journey from sign-up, to retention, to re-activation.
*   Develop campaigns to reactivate lite customers into premium customers
*   Help find and build relationships with customer advocates.
*   Use Intercom and other lifecycle messaging tools to create advanced automated email and in-app workflows.
*   Develop a rigorous testing strategy and roadmap to optimise all customer messaging to drive customer adoption/retention.
*   Collaborate with product, customer success, sales, and engineering teams on cross-team projects.
*   Work alongside Biz-Ops to implement accurate tracking and reporting and to create a robust segmentation strategy, with a goal to drive personalisation and relevance.
*   Partner with product and engineering teams to revitalize emails that are auto generated by the app with the goal of increasing product usage.
*   Audit current customer communications within existing tools and teams and identify areas of improvement
*   Create campaigns that drive customer reviews on software review sites such as G2 and Capterra.

## Requirements

*   3+ years of hands-on experience in developing and executing end-to-end lifecycle marketing campaigns, including email and in-app messaging.
*   Strong copywriting skills - both in explaining the complex, technical terms and product features in words that anyone can understand, as well as bringing its story to life.
*   Proven ability to translate data and customer insights into successful engagement strategies
*   You have a deep understanding of the customer lifecycle and how to create meaningful segmentation of your customers along the way.
*   Strong project management skills and attention to detail
*   Strong stakeholder management skills and ability to work seamlessly with cross-functional teams including product, customer success, sales, and engineering
*   The ability to thrive in a fast-paced startup environment where flexibility and adaptability are key

## Nice to have

*   Experience working for a B2B company (SaaS experience preferred) with an understanding of the sales funnel within a B2B organization.
*   Experience with email marketing software such as Intercom and Active Campaign.
*   Expertise in all aspects of email marketing including email design, best practices, deliverability, industry standards, and global compliance regulations.

## Benefits

*   An international and diverse remote-first work atmosphere
*   The opportunity to work at a fast-paced and results-oriented startup environment
*   Flexible working hours
*   Personal budget for home office improvements
*   Company equipment or monthly financial support for using your own equipment
*   Weekly yoga / fitness / meditation classes online
*   Mental Health support
*   Quarterly online team building activities with your team
*   Bi-annual company retreats in sunny locations that we will resume once Corona allows it (in the meantime, we are hosting virtual events)
*   Co-working space membership support (coming soon)

If this role excites you and sounds like a great fit, please apply below!
