---
title: "Sales Development Representative"
location: "Remote"
host: "https://jobs.lever.co/theorem?location=Remote"
companyName: "Theorem, LLC"
url: "https://jobs.lever.co/theorem/3b16fd79-d889-4ae5-ab28-9a2779189cbd"
applyUrl: "https://jobs.lever.co/theorem/3b16fd79-d889-4ae5-ab28-9a2779189cbd/apply"
timestamp: 1616630400000
hashtags: "#sales,#marketing,#crm,#ui/ux,#management,#operations,#windows,#socialmedia,#office,#finance"
jobType: "other"
logoUrl: "https://jobboard-logos-bucket.s3.eu-central-1.amazonaws.com/theorem-llc"
companyWebsite: "https://theorem.co/"
summary: "If you have 1+ year of successful experience in telemarketing/sales, Theorem is looking for someone with your knowledge."
summaryBackup: "Love #sales, #marketing, #ui/ux? Check out this job post!"
featured: 20
archived: "true"
---

Theorem is looking for a motivated craftsperson to join our global team of 200+ professionals to support our growing distributed services business. We are on a mission to dismantle the traditional consulting ecosystem and replace it with an effective framework for innovation that transforms the way businesses think about and solve problems from the inside out.

The Sales Development Representative is tasked with identifying and generating Marketing Leads through outbound activities — phone, email, and other digital outreach. Use Hubspot or comparable modern email marketing tools such as Mailchimp or Constant Contact in a professional setting is required.

The right candidate will be detail orientated, works well under pressure, is highly self-motivated, and manages their time well. The candidate will also understand how to research a company’s needs and cater the outreach to each prospect specifically. They will initiate relaxed but informative conversations with prospects with the intention of setting them up for qualified sales opportunities. **This is an entry level position**. You will be contributing to a larger marketing effort as the first SDR.

Compensation is base salary + metric based bonus which is expected to net 55,000 USD per year

## RESPONSIBILITIES

*   Follow-up on outbound marketing leads and identify qualified sales opportunities - providing appropriate levels of information at the right time for interested prospects
*   Be responsible for educating and developing prospects leading to hand-off to salespeople
*   Manage Hubspot database to ensure prospects are properly tagged and appropriately segmented
*   Create target prospects lists and penetrate key accounts
*   Cold email/call prospects generated by a variety of outside sources
*   Identify key players, researching and obtaining business requirements, and present solutions to begin the sales cycle
*   Profile strategic accounts identifying key individuals, researching and obtaining business requirements 
*   Set appointments for the sales team when a lead reaches a qualified stage
*   Nurture new marketing leads by educating and developing prospects until they are ready to speak with a sales rep
*   Collaborate with sales and marketing team members on strategic sales approach
*   Ensure successful follow-through of the sales cycle by maintaining accurate activity and lead qualification information in CRM application

## QUALIFICATIONS

*   This entry-level position requires an ambitious self-starter and someone that can effectively process inbound inquiries and identify qualified leads and opportunities. Relationship selling skills, with the ability to manage sales calls at varying levels of customer accounts, are essential.
*   1+ year of successful experience in telemarketing/sales
*   Exceptional communication skills, both oral and written, coupled with excellent listening skills and a positive and energetic phone presence
*   Demonstrated success in prospecting 
*   Extremely self-motivated with a diligent work ethic
*   High level of integrity and a strong commitment to building a successful company
*   Ability to work independently as well as part of a team in a fast-paced environment
*   Adept computer skills including proficiency with Microsoft Office/Google Products 
*   Experience with CRM applications preferred (i.e., HubSpot) 
*   Bachelor’s degree strongly preferred, high school diploma or equivalent required

## YOUR SUCCESS WILL BE MEASURED USING THE FOLLOWING GOALS

*   Number of outbound touchpoints (calls, emails, Linkedin messages)
*   Number of appointments that take place (MQL)
*   Number of qualified leads (SQL)
*   All of which result in revenue
*   **The Goal to Fill Calendars AND manage a database.**

**WHO WE ARE**

Founded in 2007, Theorem LLC ([https://theorem.co](https://theorem.co)) is a remote-first technology consulting company, fully distributed by design. We are privately-owned and committed to building a sustainable organization, at the company level, and for each of our team members.

Our services range from new product development, pure R & D, legacy modernization, pricing strategy development, revenue generation, process optimization, and organizational transformation and cultural design.

Customers come to us because they need to change to succeed and are looking for a solution that isn't just about technology — but also people, process, and leadership. We consult, form a diverse team of experts, and deliver strategy and execution under one roof.

Current and past customers include some of the household names on the Fortune 200 list but also start-ups and non-commercial organizations.

**Unsure if your skills meet all of our requirements?**

Apply anyway! We would love to meet you and find out more about how your skills could add value. At Theorem, we value open communication and feedback. We believe that diversity of identity, perspective, and experience makes us stronger; we would love to hear your perspective too!

**BENEFITS AND PERKS**

**100% REMOTE**

**TEAM RETREAT** - Once a year the entire Theorem team gets together at an inspiring location to meet, work and play.

**HEALTHY BODY, HEALTHY MIND - HAPPY TEAM** - We offer paid vacation and support healthy lifestyles through our physical fitness benefits program.

**HEALTHCARE & FINANCE** \- For US & UK based full time employees; we have comprehensive benefits.

_Theorem expects all team members to be honest, trustworthy, and operate with integrity. Discrimination and all unlawful harassment (including sexual harassment) in employment is not tolerated. We encourage success based on our individual merits and abilities, and all decisions regarding recruitment, hiring, promotion, compensation, employee development decisions such as training, and all other terms and conditions of employment, are based on business needs, job requirements and individual qualifications without regard to race, genetics, nationality, national origin, citizenship status, employment status, ethnicity, ethnic origin, color, creed, religion, belief, age, family or parental status, pregnancy, marital status, sex, gender, sex or gender assigned at birth, gender identity, sexual orientation, sexual preference, lifestyle, social class, military status, disability, hairstyle, physical features, or any other status protected by the laws or regulations in the locations where we operate. We oppose all forms of unlawful or unfair discrimination. Theorem encourages applicants of all ages. Theorem is an equal opportunity employer. No statements by Theorem are intended to create an offer of employment unless made in writing, signed by an officer of the company and no offer shall become effective unless countersigned by the prospective employee._
